# Response to Blumenstock
Brian Lorn

January 27

In terms of pitfalls, there have been various instances where the aid that was meant for the poor has instead empowered wealthier families. This is due to digital credit and other factors that contribute to the raw data collection necessitating certain factors that those who are wealthier are more likely to have such as a phone or Facebook account. Due to this, the data collected might not be an accurate representation of the population it is attempting to model. In addition, these attempts to map out population by wealth has not been thoroughly tested, meaning that the modeling could be incorrectly representing the population of a developing country. This can be seen by the problem of some data collections not being able to successfully model future populations. Lastly, those who are wealthier but desire aid might attempt to cheat the system in order to receive benefits intended for other families. This issue is rather pertinent because it contributes to the already large percentage of aid that ends up being misappropriated to wealthier families. 

However, Blumenstock suggests that some of these pitfalls can be avoided. For example, to avoid misappropriating resources, the modeling from the data can be customized to better fit the population it is meant to represent. By doing so, many errors that might occur can be minimized by using prior knowledge of the population. Additionally, the modeling from data collection can be supplemented from on site, house-to-house surveying. This will be able to avoid the issue of misrepresenting a certain country's population by necessitating certain factors found in more wealthier families as a prerequisite. Finally, by committing more resources to developing countries, the people developing these models will be able to better understand the context of the population which can then be used to create better models.

Regarding the intersection between human development and data science, it is paramount to not only intend to do well but have tangible, clear goals towards making progress. Due to the dire consequences of misallocating resources to those who need it, good intent is simply not enough. Thus, having clear goals and objectives that are publicly disclosed will both provide transparency and show commitment towards properly modeling these developing countries. In that way, data science, like most other things, is simply a tool that has its own strengths and weaknesses. Due to that, it must be considered with all the other tools current available such as in-person surveys and on-site organizations. While data science has the power to revolutionize the field, it must be used cautiously as the consequences of minute errors could mean life and death to some families.
