# Response to Stevens et al.
Brian Lorn

March 2

1. Within the reading, the authors created a technique called Random Forest modeling. This model works by taking in many covariates in the form of aspects relevant to either land coverage or land development such as night time lights or distance to roads in order to populate a "forest" of data values that represent the population along with their geographical location. In order to use these various covariates, they must be grouped together and changed into a unified, readable format. After doing so, an algorithm finds the covariables which have the most accurate relationship with population to use as the main source to derive the new population data.  

2. A machine learning algorithm is an algorithm that is able to learn as time passes how to create more accurate and reliable data. Compared to previous approaches which needed full data sets of parameters in order to create a model, this type of approach is more flexible with partial data sets and is able to perform better over time. In particular, this is incredibly important because there are many times where the data present within a region might not be complete or out of date due to financial or political restrictions, necesitating the use of partial or slightly inaccurate data to be used as the parameters. Unlike the previous methods where the parameters accuracy deeply affected the accuracy of the model, a machine learning algorithm will be able to mitigate that margin of error.    

3. Some of these geospatial covariates were land cover, distance to hospitals, night time lights, slope, elevation, and distance to roads. While some were more accurate than others depending on the region, these various geospatial covariates were all inputted in order for the machine learning algorithm to see which variable was more accurate. In addition, these covariates spanned over the entire country which was done because inputting larger data sets will lead to a higher degree of accuracy for the algorithm. This is because the model created can be subseted into smaller subdivisions which will have a higher resolution due to the size of the initial data.

4. For LMICs where the government might not have the resources to properly conduct national surveys, highly accurate descriptions of the population is paramount to various efforts. One of which is distributing aid which can be done more quickly by knowing beforehand the population of each administrative subdivision. Additionally, aid might also be distributed on a population basis which could be improbable without this data. Another important use of this data is recovery in the event of a disaster. If a disaster were to occur, it would be exceedingly helpful to know the popualtion of each affected region in order to know how many people need aid or should be located in a certain place. 

Within the context of human development in LMICs, what is the relevance to your area of investigation in having a highlty accurate description of where each household and person is located across planet earth?
5. 
